Introduction to Intellectual Property[^1]
=========================================

Francis Davey <http://www.francisdavey.co.uk/>       

Introduction
============

This talk is intended as a very brief introduction to intellectual
property (hereafter “IP”) law.

The aim of the first half (before the break) is to run rapidly through
the different species of intellectual property so that you will at least
know them when you see them – or know the right sorts of questions to
ask or noises to make when you first see a client about them.

The second half will look at a not-quite intellectual property right
“confidential information” and then at various contractual features of
intellectual property rights that may be relevant to you in negotiating
deals and drafting contracts. I will look in particular at the
relationship between IP and employment rights.

This handout is intended mainly as a set of bullet points and notes so
that you do not need to take any while I am talking. Neither this nor
the talk itself substitutes for very considerable research that is
usually needed in nailing any question of IP law.

Intellectual Property in general
================================

The phrase “intellectual property” doesn't have a precise meaning – its
used loosely for a variety of rights some of which are more obviously
property rights than others. In this talk I am chiefly concerned with
specific statutory kinds of property with an intellectual flavour, in
particular:

1.  Patents [^2]

2.  Copyright[^3]

3.  Performer's property rights[^4]

4.  Database right[^5]

5.  Registered designs[^6]

6.  Design right[^7]

7.  Community designs (registered and unregistered)[^8]

8.  Plant breeders' rights[^9]

9.  Trade Marks[^10]

I have omitted the artist's resale right (a right for an artist to a
share of the resale value of one of their works) and various kinds of
collective and certification marks.

Patents
=======

International treaties

[Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial
Property](http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/ip/paris/trtdocs_wo020.html)

Patent Cooperation Treaty

[Patent Law
Treaty](http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/ip/plt/trtdocs_wo038.html)

[European Patent
Convention](http://www.epo.org/law-practice/legal-texts/html/epc/1973/e/ma1.html)

Legislation

Patents Act 1977

Books etc

[Terrel on the Law of
Patents](http://www.wildy.com/isbn/9781847039033/terrell-on-the-law-of-patents-17th-ed)

Patents are forms of registered intellectual property awarded for
inventions.

[^1]: Francis Davey <http://www.francisdavey.co.uk/>       

[^2]: Patents Act 1977 (“PA”)

[^3]: Part I, Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 (“CDPA”)

[^4]: ibid, Part II

[^5]: Directive 96/9/EC transposed by the Copyright and Rights in
    Databases Regulations 1997

[^6]: Registered Designs Act 1949

[^7]: Part III, CDPA

[^8]: Council Regulation (EC) No 6/2002 transposed by the Community
    Design Regulations 2005

[^9]: Plant Varieties Act 1997

[^10]: Trade Marks Act 1984
